sou've learned a ton of stuff in this
section, so don't worry if your head is
spinning, the best way to absorb the
concepts is to practice and so that's
what we're going to do now. Now this is
one area where you might struggle a bit
especially when it comes to the
constructors that's often where
developers new to Kotlin get tripped up
because they forget that all
constructors have to delegate to the
primary constructor or even that there
is a primary constructor and of course
Java doesn't have the concept of primary
and secondary constructors and so it's a
new concept and it might take you some
time to get used to it. So now it's time
to practice. Now the first thing I'm
going to want you to do is to convert a
Java class to a Kotlin class. Now I've
already typed in all the Java code that
you're going to need and in the
resources section, there's a starter
project, so if you download that starter
project and you import it into IntelliJ,
you'll save yourself a lot of typing.
There are two packages in the project,
there is a Java code package that
contains all the Java code and then
there's this oo challenge package that is
where the Kotlin code will go and
there's only one file in there and it's
empty. So this is where I'm going to put
all the challenge code as we work
through the challenge and you can do the
same, so the first challenge is to
convert this class called bicycle to
Kotlin. Now I got this class and the
other two classes from the official Java
tutorial on inheritance and there's a
link to that in the resources section.
I have changed the classes a little bit,
so they're not an exact match for what's in
the tutorial, but these classes are based
on the classes in that tutorial. So the
first class I want you to convert is the
bicycle class, so let's take a quick look
at it, it has three private fields, it has
the usual constructor and then each of
the fields how they set in a get and
then there's these two methods here
apply, break and speed up. Now I suggest
that you call the converted class Kotlin
bicycle so that there's no
confusion between this bicycle and the
converted Kotlin class. So that's your
first challenge convert the bicycle
class to Kotlin good luck with it and
I'll see you in a bit.
Okay, welcome back so as I said I'm going
to put all of my code into this oo
challenge file, but before we hop over to
the Kotlin file, let's just take another
look at this class. So we have three
private fields here, so we're going to
have three properties and every field
has a get and a set and since we can set
all three fields that means we're going
to want the properties to be var
properties, not val properties, so let me
hop over to the Kotlin file now and I'm
going to say class Kotlin bicycle and
that's going to be var cadence which is
an int var gear with a gear or speed, speed.
So we'll keep them in the same order,
you don't have to, but var speed is an int
and var gear is an int it and so just with
this line here, just declaring the class
we've actually taken care of declaring
the fields, we've taken care of the
constructor because this is a primary
constructor which is going to do exactly
what this constructor is doing and we've
taken care of all the sets and gets,
because when you declare a property as
var, Kotlin will generate the set and get
for you under the covers. So the only
thing that we have left to do is add
these two methods into the class and I'm
going to copy, oh what happened there,
IntelliJ is trying to be helpful and
it's turning out not to be helpful,
I'm going to copy and paste these methods in.
So I'll go ctrl v, now at this point
Kotlin has noticed that the clipboard
contains content that's been copied from
Java and it's asking me if I want to
convert and in this case I'm going to
say yes and we'll see what we get and we
actually get what we want. So we now have
the two functions apply break that takes
a decrement integer and speed up,
that takes an increment integer. So we now
have the equivalent class, I'm not sure
why that moved we now have the
equivalent class to what we had in bicycle.
Now because these are private, you might
have been tempted to perhaps do this,
but in Kotlin, that's not what you want
because remember that in Kotlin,
everything's public and final by default
and even if these are public, which they
are now. All the outside world has to go
through the gets and the sets, to deal
with these properties. If you make the
properties private, it means that nothing
in the outside world can touch the
properties, they can only be accessed
from inside and that's not what we want
because in the Java code the outside
world can access the properties through
the sets and the get and that's exactly
the same situation we have here.
These properties can only be accessed through
the sets and the gets, so that's our
equivalent class, we can- we've converted
the bicycle class so now that we have a
bicycle class it's time to convert, you
might have noticed there are two other
Java classes, it's time to convert the
mountain bike class, so let's have a look
at that one and we'll see that it
extends bicycle, it has an additional
field called seat height the constructor
is just doing what a constructor would
normally do here, it's delegating up to
the superest constructor to do- to deal
with the properties that are declared in
the superclass and then it's just doing
the usual assigning the value to the
field and it has a get and a set.
So nothing complex here, pause the video and
go ahead and convert this class, I would
call it Kotlin mountain-bike and I would
do it in the same file just to keep
things simple. So pause the video and
convert the mountain-bike class to Kotlin.
Okay, so let's go over to Kotlin, but
before we do, we have the same situation
with seat height, we want it to be a var
because it can be set, otherwise there's
nothing complex here, so let's go over to
our Kotlin file and pull out the class
here so I'll say class Kotlin
mountain-bike and so we want a var seat
height and that's going to be an int and
then here, we want to accept the other
three property values,
we don't declare them here because we're
going to delegate back up to the primary
constructor of the superclass and that's
where these properties are declared.
So we're just going to accept them here
without declaring them, so we'll say
cadance int speed int and gear int and
then at this point we want to delegate
to the primary constructor, but before we
do that we have one very important thing
to do, we need to add the open keyword
here, so that this class can actually be
extended. So I'm going to add open there.
Okay, so now we can extend the class so
I'm going to add a colon here and I'll
call the supers constructor on another
line and so I'm going to say Kotlin
bicycle and we're going to pass the
cadence, the speed in the gear and that's
it, that's all we need for this
conversion, if we go back and look at the
mountain-bike now, we'll see that we've
covered declaring the seat height, we're
declaring it right here and it's a var
so we're going to get our get and set
generated under the covers, we're calling
the super constructor right here with
the cadence speed and gear and we know
that under the covers Kotlin is going to
assign whatever is passed into the seat
height to initialize seat height with
that value, so we're done for Kotlin
mountain-bike. Alright, we have one more
class to convert and that's the road bike
class, so let's have a look at it so the
road bike class is really similar to
mountain bike, except instead of having a
seat height field, it has a tire width
field, it's doing the same sort of thing
in the constructor but one thing that's
a little bit different is it only has a
get, so nothing terribly complicated in
here. Now go ahead and convert this class
to Kotlin and I would call it Kotlin-
Kotlin road bike so pause the video and
go ahead and write the Kotlin road bike class.
Okay, well this is really similar to the
mountain bike, the only difference is
because the tire width only has a get,
we want it to be a val
property, not a var property because it
can't be set. So let's go back over to
the Kotlin file and I'm actually just
going to copy this to give me a bit of a
head start here and this will be a
Kotlin road bike and we have a tire
width property that's going to be a
vowel. So we'll change that to vowel and
we'll say tire width and that's it,
that's all we need, so with this we've
declared the tire width property,
it's a vowel because there's no set,
so nobody in this in the outside world can
set the tire width after the instance
has been created and it'll be the same
situation here, once the instance has
been created, the tire width can't be
changed and we've called super and
passed up the cadence, the speed and the
gear, so we've now written the equivalent
Kotlin classes and I think you'll agree
that this is a lot more concise, I mean
if we look at the Java classes, there's
less code in this entire file then there
isn't a bicycle class this is IntelliJ
has collapsed all of the gets and sets so,
if I was to expand them, we'd see them in
all their glory and we can see there's
more code in this file than there is in
this file and this file we've declared
all three classes. So this, this and this
So all can be reduced down to this.
So Kotlin is a lot more concise,
the difficult thing here is to remember that
if there wasn't a set, we want it to be
val and also that we always have to be
delegating up to the primary constructor
of the superclass and because of that,
we don't redeclare the properties here,
that's something that can get some
developers into trouble, I've seen
developers online asking about this
because they're trying to redeclare the properties
here and they're getting errors and often
they don't understand why. So you only
declare the properties once and they're
declared the cadence, the speed and the
gear properties are declared up in the
primary constructor for the Kotlin
bicycle, so all of the subclasses want to
defer back up to the primary constructor
of Kotlin bicycle for those three
properties, you don't want to be
redeclaring them here, also there was the
issue of the private and not wanting to
make them private here, because we
discussed this when we went over the
access modifiers, that even though these
properties are public, the outside world
still has to go through the getters and
setters. This is the equivalent in Java
of having a private field with a set
and get. If you make a call in property
private, then nothing outside the outside
world can access it and that's not what
we want. Okay so now that we've converted
our three classes, I'm going to go back
to the Java bicycle class and I'm going
to add a print description method,
I'm going to say public void print
description, I'm not going to take any
parameters and this is basically going
to be a two string method but it adds a
little more information than just the
names of the fields. So I'm going to say
system dot out dot print line and it
says bike is in gear and then we're
going to add the gear property, append it
and then we can say with a cadence of
and we're going to append the cadence
field and then we're going to say
traveling at a speed of speed and then
we're going to append a period. So when
print description is called, bike is in
gear gear, with a cadence of cadence
traveling at a speed of speed period
will be printed to the console. So what I
want you to do now is I want you to add
this print description
method to the Kotlin bicycle class and I
want you to change the body, so that
you're doing this in a more Kotlin like
way. Now, this is a long string, so you
might want to split it over two lines
and in that case you will need to use
an append to do that, but that's all you
should need. So add the print description
method to the Kotlin bicycle class, have
it print out the same thing using a
maximum of one concatenation. So give
that a try and I'll see you in a minute.
Okay, let's go over to our Kotlin file
and this isn't too complicated, I'm going
to add it underneath the speed-up
function, so I'll say fun print
description, I could have copied and
pasted the code but actually I'm going
to do that, let's- let's do that just so I
can point something out. So I'm going to
say ctrl c and I'll come over here and
say control v and once again, Kotlin is
going to notice that I'm copying Java
code, so I'm going to ask it to convert
it and you'll see that when it does,
we get perfectly valid code, this would work
but it's not the solution we want and
it's not the ideal way to do it in
Kotlin. So as I mentioned when we briefly
looked at the automated converter, it's
designed to be more verbose because it's
a little bit of a learning aid and also
it tries to be as close to the Java code
as it can be. And in this case it
certainly is I mean essentially all it's
done is knocked off the system dot out
from the print line, I mean the only
thing that's different apart from the
function signature of course is this has
system dot out, otherwise it's the same
thing. So it's fine to use the automated
converter and if you did that as a
starting point, that's great I mean it's
a good way to start, but our solution can
only have a maximum of one concatenation
and it doesn't even need that, I just set
that because it's a long string and you
might have wanted to have split it over
two lines, but we can do it all in one
line without any concatenations and of
course, we can do that using a string
template. So let's go ahead and do that
now. So I'm going to change this to bike
is in gear, gear with a cadence of
cadence and then this is where I'm going
to split it over the line, I don't have
to, I could just pull this up but it'll
run off the screen. So I'll say plus and
then I don't need to blank here
traveling at a speed of speed and we can
just pull the period in here.
And that's it. So this is more of a
Kotlin like way of doing it, we've just
got the one concatenation, we're using
string templates and it's the equivalent
of this. So now, I'm going to in the Java
the other three Java classes, I'm going
to add a print description for them,
so for the mountain-bike I'm going to say
public void print description and of
course this is going to override the
method in the bicycle class, so I'm going
to call super dot print description,
so we're not going to print the description
out in one line, we're going to do it in
two. So this is taking care of printing
the gear cadence and speed, field so I
just have to print the seat height here,
so I'll say system dot out dot print
line, print line the mountain bike has a
seat height of plus seat height and I'll
put the period there as well and that's
all well we'll do it, I guess I wonder if
this isn't inches all that inches here
I'm going to assume it's in inches maybe
it isn't, but I'll put inches here.
So that's the print description method for
the mountain-bike and now we're going to
do the same thing for the road bike I'm
going to copy this, paste it in here and
I'll change this to the road bike has a
tire width of and we'll say tire width
and this is in millimeters, so I'm going
to change this to mm so we now have a
print description here and a print
description here.
And what I want you to do if you haven't
already guessed, is to add these two
methods into their respective classes in
Kotlin. So convert this print description
method and add it to the Kotlin mountain
bike class and convert this one and add
it to the Kotlin road bike class,
so pause the video and give it a try.
Okay, welcome back so I'm going to
actually copy and paste some code in
here, so I'm going to copy the
mountain-bike print description come
over to the Kotlin file and here's our
mountain bike, so I'm going to paste,
I'll let it knock off the system got out for
me and it did. Now, here it added the
override keyword which we need, but it's
complaining now, because we need to
declare this function is open, because
remember everything is final by default
in Kotlin, so I need to add the open
keyword here, to let the compiler know
that it's okay for this to be overridden,
and now the error goes away and that's it.
Here it noticed because this was a
simpler concatenation, the converter
actually just went ahead and used a
string template for us, so the converter
worked fine and we can do the same thing
with the Kotlin roadbike, I'll grab this
come into the Kotlin roadbike class,
paste it in and I'll accept the
conversion, so when both of these
functions were delegating up to the
super print description and you do that
the exact same way you do in Java, if you
want to call the super version of a
method, you just use super dot and we're
using a string template. So we now have
our three Kotlin classes and we have a
at least one function in each of them.
I'm going to stop this video here and in
the next video we're going to continue
the challenge and we're going to
actually start using these classes.
So, I'll see you in the next video.